---
draft: true
date: "2023-04-02T10:30:00Z"
featuredImage:
tags:
  -  conferences
  - adhd
title: "X World Lightning Talk: So You Think You Have ADHD?"
type: post
comments: false
---

As you might deduce from the title, this post is going to briefly cover some of the traits associated with ADHD. After being diagnosed a little over two months ago, I wanted to shed some light on the traits associated in the hopes that someone else in a similar situation, sees this and seeks help sooner. This is definitely **not** medical advice but if anything here strikes a chord, please go and chat to your doctor.

<!--more-->

Last week I attended the X World conference, this year hosted in Melbourne and while there, I decided to put my name down for a 5 minute Lightning Talk (presented with Damian Cavanagh). The content below is the very brief content we covered and a couple of resources that helped me if you want to look into ADHD further.

### ADHD Types

- Inattentive - generally categorised by innatention and distractibility
- Hyperactive - generally categorised by impulsive or hyperactive behaviours
- Combined - displays a mix of both (This is me)

### Inattentive Traits of ADHD
*Ask yourself these questions*

- Do you often miss details or makes careless mistakes in work?
- Do you have trouble paying attention to tasks (particularly ones you are not interested in)?
- Do you sometimes miss when someone is speaking directly to you?
- Do you often fail to follow through on instructions or finish tasks/work?
- Do you have trouble organising tasks and activities?
- Do you procrastinate around things that require mental effort over a long period of time?
- Do you lose things regularly (if they aren’t in their home or designated space)?
- Are you often forgetful in daily activities or easily distracted?

### Hyperactive Traits of ADHD
*Ask yourself these questions*

- Do you often fidget (Tapping hands or feet, squirming, bouncing your leg)?
- Do you feel restless in situations you are not interested in?
- Do you sometimes feel unable to relax or unwind?
- Do you sometimes feel like you are “driven by a motor”?
- Do you often talk excessively about subjects that interest you?
- Do you often want to answer a question before it has been completed?
- Do you have trouble waiting your turn (or feeling impatient while waiting for yours)?

### Resources

- [ADHD 2.0 - Edward M. Hallowell, John J. Ratey](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/53231680)
- [ADHD Self-assesment questionaire](https://embrace-autism.com/asrs-5/#test)

